# Visual Studio 2015 Build of QuanergyClient

These instructions were tested for the following configuration:

* Windows 7 64-bit
* Visual Studio 2015 (tested with Community Edition with Update 3, Visual C++ installed)
* CMake (tested with latest version 3.9.4 available at time of writing [here](https://cmake.org/files/v3.9/cmake-3.9.4-win64-x64.msi))

## Install Prerequisites

Install Windows Software Development Kit (SDK) for Windows 8.1 found
[here](https://developer.microsoft.com/en-us/windows/downloads/windows-8-1-sdk)

Install PCL 1.8.0 All-in-one for MSVC2015 (x64) found [here](http://unanancyowen.com/en/pcl18)
During the installation process, do the following:

```
a. Select "Add PCL to the system path for all users."
b. Install PCL 1.8.0 in "C:\Program Files\PCL 1.8.0" 
```

Update environment variables

```
1. Open "System Properties" dialog
   Start > Control Panel > System and Security > System > Advanced system settings
2. From "System Properties", open "Environment Variables" dialog
   Advanced tab > Environment Variables...
3. On "Environment Variables" dialog
   Edit "Path" variable under "System variables"
   Append ";%OPENNI2_REDIST64%" to "Path"
```

## Build Instructions

Download copy of QuanergyClient source from GitHub.

```
With Git:
* git clone https://github.com/QuanergySystems/quanergy_client.git

Without Git
* Use Web Browser to navigate to https://github.com/QuanergySystems/quanergy_client
* Download as .zip file
* Extract contents of .zip file to local folder

```
Use CMake GUI to configure Visual Studio 2015 Solution

1. Set "Where is the source code:" to C:\location\of\quanergy_client
2. Set "Where to build the binaries:" to C:\location\of\quanergy_client\build
3. Press "Configure" 
  * Select "Visual Studio 14 2015 Win64" as the generator.
  * Use default native compilers.
  * If an error occurs where it cannot find the Boost install in PCL, use "Add Entry" button to add the following:
    - PATH variable `BOOST_INCLUDEDIR = C:/Program Files/PCL 1.8.0/3rdParty/Boost/include/boost-1_61`
    - PATH variable `BOOST_LIBRARYDIR = C:/Program Files/PCL 1.8.0/3rdParty/Boost/lib`
    - BOOL variable `Boost_USE_STATIC_LIBS = True` (check the box)
    - Press "Configure" again
  * Press "Generate" to create the Visual Studio 2015 solution of QuanergyClient

Build quanergy_client code and visualizer application in Visual Studio 2015

* Open QuanergyClient.sln in C:\location\of\quanergy_client_build
* Right-click on ALL_BUILD in the Solution Explorer and select "Build".  Do this for both Debug and Release builds.

## Test build

1. Use Windows Explorer to navigate to "C:\location\of\quanergy_client\build\Release"
2. Hold Left-Shift and right-click for pop-up menu and select "Open command window here"
3. At command prompt enter:

```
.\visualizer.exe --host <IP Address of Sensor>
```

Cloud Viewer window should appear.  When sensor is up to speed, use mouse to manipulate the view of point cloud.

**NOTE:** The point cloud may not appear until the mouse is used to move the view.

